All right, so let's create another
conflict via rebase instead of merge, so
I added some bolts here,
just so I don't goof it up,
cuz I kept goofing it up
when I do it by myself.
So first we need to create a change in
hello-git, we're gonna go from A+2,
to A+3.
All right, so we're gonna start
in hello-git I'm gonna go
to the README, and
I'm gonna go A + 3, fantastic.
Then, we're gonna create another
change in bar.md, the last line, okay?
We're gonna go to the last line,
so bar.md,
I'm gonna go all the way down and
go last line from hello.
This is probably not what I put in
the course, but you can follow along.
Now I'm going to go git status,
you can see those two changes,
I could go git diff to look at the two
changes if I wanted to, okay good.
A 3, add it to the last line,
fantastic, git add this,
git commit, let's go I don't
know what to call this thing,
a change from hello git for
rebase conflict enjoy your day.
Very nice message, no it's sort of making
me happy when I read it on the other side.
All right, so now we're gonna do
the exact same thing in remote,
I'm gonna change A +2 to A + 4.
And I'm gonna make a change in bar,
but this time to the first line,
not the last line, the first line,
this is important.
All right, so we'll do it again,
we'll increment that twice,
go to bar, and we'll go first line
change bar, we can see it right there.
We can diff it if you want to, A +4, first
line awesome, add in here, git commit, and
then we'll go change further from remote
for a wonderful rebase conflict, awesome.
Just makes me feel so
happy doing it that way.
All right, so now that we've done that,
we're gonna rebase remote git's trunk
with hello git and create the conflict.
Now, remember, that means you gotta go
git pull rebase, long as you don't have
the option, auto-magically pre-enabled,
this should just work now.
There we go, we have this wonderful error
message, but look at it kinda closely,
what do you see here?
I see, okay getting some information from
hello-git, we're gonna auto-merge README,
there's a conflict in README,
we're gonna auto-merge bar, no problems.
Bar was It's nicely merged,
the README could not be merged,
therefore we have to manually do this.
All right, so let's check out
the conflict, so if I go git status,
you'll see right here that bar is in the
green because It's ready to be committed.
It was able to merge it, nothing you
need to worry about, you're good to go.
But this one has the both modified, this
is what I was talking about with the whole
both modified thing where
you need to resolve it.
We just simply have to go through and
do the exact same thing,
let's fix the README all right,
so I'm gonna to go vim README.
I want you to tell me something that's
different than what it was with merge,
what do you see that's different,
how about this one?
I'll go back here and
I'd like this, cat README,
A + 3 right, why does it say HEAD,
is a plus three?
That's upstreams, that's not our change,
that's upstreams change, why is it HEAD?
>> That's where it currently is.
>> In rebase, when you rebase,
you check out the branch are rebasing on,
then you play your commits one at a time.
Then you check out the branch from whence
you came and then it's updated and
nice, right?
So you gotta remember that, so it's
inverted when you're looking at rebase.
Ours is theirs and theirs is ours,
it's that easy, by the way,
this is the one part of git that's just
like it's if you know how rebase works,
it makes perfect sense.
And even when it makes perfect
sense it's still stupid,
it's how I feel about it, why you got
to be like that, you know what I mean?
You got to reverse it, and
the worst part is that once you
remember this and you go like this.
Okay, rebase is the opposite one,
you're gonna be like dang it,
is merge theirs and ours, or
is it ours, then which one's rebase?
Then all of a sudden you reverse uno
yourself and you're just like, dang it,
I can't remember, so
just remember how rebase works.
Instead of trying to remember some cute
way to remember that it's ours and theirs.
If you just remember that rebase first
checks out the branch you're rebasing and
then Plays on top,
it's very easy to always remember it.
So just kind of a little,
that's four years of me being
confused about theirs versus ours and
then finally just reading it, and
then you don't reverse yourself anymore.
Let's see, let's choose our conflict in
this case, let's choose hello gits change.
So remember, because we're currently
checked out with hello git,
so I'm just saying it
from gits perspective.
Let's commit with a hello git, let's not
commit with remote, so we'll go like this,
we'll erase that, that and that,
there we go, A +3, I want the A+3 one.
Now don't goof this one up on accident
okay, you'll notice right here that it
says, to be able to fix these conflicts,
you do git rebase-continue.
If you actually do commit,
you've seen me do it a couple of times,
which I haven't explained it yet.
You can git reset -soft HEAD~1 and
you can undo your commit,
and then rebase-continue I'll show you
that in a little bit, but there we go.
So now I can go git add, there we go,
now notice that it went away,
why did it go away?
Silence, is that the reason,
just a strong silent type?
No.
>> It's up to this change.
>> Yes, it's because remember right
now we're in perspective of hello git,
we're in perspective of our upstream.
Therefore, we accepted upstream's change,
therefore, there's no change right now.
I know it's very frustrating to
think about these things, but
it's good kind of exercise to go through,
now you kind of know okay, I know,
it's very easy to goof up.
So now I just simply go git rebase
continue, now we get this opportunity
to edit the message to say hey a wonderful
nice rebase conflict I'm gonna save it.
And there we go it's beautiful where
our branch is currently ahead of origin
trunk by one commit awesome,
if we do a little log one line.
You can see right here, we had this
wonderful change from hello git,
then we resolve the conflict, but
there's no conflict commit, right?
We just simply resolve it and
continue to our rebase, which means if I
were to add in a dash P, you could see
we have the first line change to bar.
And that's it,
we don't have the A+4 anymore,
we literally erased it out of existence.
I know it's a little emotionally painful
when you think about it, so this is some
of the dangers of rebase is that you're
fully removing something right now.
Because you moved forward your commit,
then you edited your commit in such
a way that you removed your change.
Change did not exist anymore, and
now it's just this change you had left.
>> It's somewhere in the reflog still,
right?
>> That change?
We could probably find it in the ref
log for sure, so if you did a git
ref log wherever it is, this one right
here is my guess, this looks about right.
A change from remote and wonderful
rebuzzing, so if I go like this, git log p
this, yeah there it is, so you can see it
right there, so we can get back to it.
It's just since there was no conflict
commit, you lose that information.
So this would be a good argument for why
you shouldn't use rebase, this is probably
the best argument honestly, I don't think
you'd get any better than this one.
Just because I don't like the idea
of losing information but
at the exact same time it makes
perfect sense if you erase your code.